# Security 101 Homework: Security Reporting

## Part I: Symantec SAM HASSOUN

For Part 1 of your homework assignment, you should primarily use the _Symantec Internet Security Threat Report_ along with independent research to answer the following questions.


1. What is formjacking?
Formjacking is referred to as an attack by cybercriminals where they primarily use malicious JavaScript to hack a website and take control of the site to gain access to sensitive user information. Cybercriminals usually attack the payment form itself. This data usually contains information like credit card details and other personal information used on payment forms when users are making an online transaction.

When a user enters their payment information to complete an online purchase and proceeds to click on the &#39;submit&#39; button, malicious JavaScript code that has compromised the website collects the information the user entered. This data is then transferred to the attackers servers where they can benefit from the data personally by making use of the financial information, or they can sell the information. Formjacking can be viewed as new-age card skimming that has been adopted in the online world. The attack usually takes the form of a supply chain attack and the code inserted targets the existing code provided by a third party (MERCHANT), not the website itself.

1. How many websites are compromised each month with formjacking code?
According to the Symantec Year in Review report in 2019, 4,818 unique websites were compromised by formjacking code each month in 2018. During this period Symantec successfully blocked over 3.7 million attempts. Interestingly, 1 million of these successful blocks occurred in the months of November and December. May was another month where the number of blocks was significantly high, accounting for 556,000. Although we can assume the November December statistics could be due to increased online activity relating to Christmas shopping, the month of May appears to be irregular.

2. What is Powershell?
Powershell is an open source shell and scripting language which was built on top of the Microsoft .NET technology. In 2002, Jeffrey Snover of Microsoft made a realization that the Windows OS was lacking in good command line interface and scripting when compared to their competitor Linux. He initiated plans to change this. From 2002 and 2005 &quot;Monad&quot; was in development which would eventually be renamed as &quot;Powershell 1.0&quot; in 2006. The earlier versions of Powershell were designed for use in Windows only but this has changed significantly since 2016. Microsoft moved to an open-source PowerShell and this made PowerShell available on macOS, Linux and other OS&#39;s using the .NET Core.

PowerShell is a Command Line shell that allows users to run commands as well as a scripting language that can build tools and automate processes on the system. It has been highly beneficial for IT professionals, System Administrators, Developers or even just IT enthusiasts. For example, it can simplify network administration by pushing updates to multiple devices on a network. In essence it is a tool available in the management of computer systems. Due to the increasing popularity and widespread use of PowerShell, there has been an enormous increase in malicious PowerShell scripts blocked in 2018.

1. What was the annual percentage increase in malicious Powershell scripts?
The annual percentage increase in malicious PowerShell scripts in 2018 was a staggering 1000%. Malicious PowerShell scripts has become an appealing method for cyber criminals in recent times as executing directly from memory means attacks become harder to see and trace as opposed to other types of attacks.

2. What is a coinminer?
CoinMiner are programs run on another user&#39;s device without their permission to mine cryptocurrency like BitCoin, Monero etc. Cybercriminals use this form of CryptoJacking in the form of a Trojan that uses the victims Central Processing Unit to mine digital currency for their own personal gain. This method of attack peaked between December 2017 and February 2018 when Symantec were able to successfully block approximately 8 million events per month during that period.

3. How much data from a single credit card can be sold for?
According to the Symantec report, data from a single credit card can be sold for up to $45. To put that into more perspective, in 2018 there was the Marriott data breach. This breach compromised credit and debit card information for 383 million people. That would equate to billions of dollars of stolen funds as a result of this serious attack.

4. How did Magecart successfully attack Ticketmaster?

Magecart were able to successfully breach Ticketmasters data by inserting malicious JavaScript code into the Inbenta JavaScript code on the TicketMaster website. Inbenta is a third party supplier which is used for natural language processing to answer user questions (chatbot), which once intercepted, allowed the attackers to steal credit card information. The Javascript worked as a &#39;credit-card skimmer&#39; or keylogger whereby any data submitted on the website was then sent to the attackers server giving them enormous amounts of data.

1. What is one reason why there has been a growth of formjacking?
In 2018, there was an increase in the number of malicious JavaScript code attacks. Apart from the obvious benefit of being able to gather enormous amounts of data consisting of users personal and credit card details, one of the interesting changes in 2018 has also been the drop in the value of cryptocurrencies. We may be seeing that the attackers who were previously focusing their efforts on cryptojacking are now changing their targets due to the fact that cryptocurrencies like Monero have in fact dropped in value by a massive 90% when comparing Jan 2018 with December 2018. In the current circumstances, cybercriminals may be reassessing their targets to a more reliable target where the value of stolen personal information or credit card data is more guaranteed in the underground market.

2. Cryptojacking dropped by what percentage between January and December 2018?
Cryptojacking dropped in 2018 by 52% between January and December. These figures are still 4 times more than the cryptojacking events blocked in 2017, but the positive indicator is that the numbers are trending down. According to a report in forbes.com, there is a concerning discovery of a new cryptojacking malware known as &#39;WebCobra&#39;. McAfee Labs have discovered this malware and have seen that the victims computer is attacked silently and code is dropped to infiltrate the system to mine for digital currency. McAfee researches have also established that the rise of cryptojacking is directly tied in with the rise of cryptocurrency prices.

3. If a web page contains a coinmining script, what happens?
Browser based coin mining is implemented using scripting inside the web browser. In this instance, the attacker utilises the victims CPU to mine for cryptocurrency for as long as the web page is open. Apart from the mining that is occurring on the victim&#39;s computer, a slowdown in their computers performance and a reduction in productivity will occur.

4. How does an exploit kit work?
Exploit Kits are a type of hack in the toolkit of cybercriminals. They take advantage of vulnerabilities in systems in order to distribute malware or perform other malicious activities. They do this by targeting popular software that have known vulnerabilities and load bunches of code to attack those vulnerabilities.. The way it works is a multi- step process

**-** the attacker convinces users to click on a link that initiates the exploit kit into the system

-the exploit kits find vulnerabilities in the software installed on the users system
-an exploit that takes advantage of the vulnerability found is executed on the system

-malware is executed onto the system and the attacker has infiltrated the system and has gained access.

1. What does the criminal group SamSam specialize in?
The SamSam group specialize in RansomWare attacks particularly against organisations in the US. In 2018 Symantc found evidence of 67 SamSam attacks. They first appeared in 2015/2016, they have targeted multiple industries such as critical infrastructure establishments from the healthcare and public healthcare sectors as well as the transportation and education sectors. It was initially believed that the attacks originated by an eastern european hacker group, but in 2018 2 Iranian Nationals were indicted for cybercrimes. The name SamSam comes from the filename of the earliest discovered attack.

1. How many SamSam attacks did Symantec find evidence of in 2018?
Symantec found evidence that SamSam was responsible for 67 attacks in 2018.

2. Even though ransomware attacks declined in 2017-2018, what was one dramatic change that occurred?
During the 2017-2018 period, the overall number of ransomware attacks dropped by 20%. During this period, attacks by WannaCry, copycat versions and Petya continued. In fact, when these worms are removed from the statistics, the drop in attack numbers climbs to a 52% fall. As encouraging as this may sound, the dramatic change was prior to 2017, the primary targets of ransomware attackers were consumers. In 2017, this changed to a majority of infections occurring in businesses. This further worsened in 2018 where 81% of all ransomware infections were aimed at enterprises.

3. In 2018, what was the primary ransomware distribution method?
The primary method ransomware attacks were distributed in 2018 was email campaigns. As businesses use email as their primary communication tool, this meant they were more affected as a result of these attacks. According to Symantec&#39;s ISTR, spear phishing and other methods were amongst the primary methods of distribution in these email campaigns to distribute ransomware.

1. What operating systems do most types of ransomware attacks still target?

Windows based systems are the most targeted systems for ransomware attacks. This could be primarily due to the fact that consumers are moving to more mobile based use and their data is often backed up on the cloud. The other possible reason for this is that organisations still use windows based systems enmasse, so if a cybercriminal can infiltrate an organisation via one of their systems, then the attack can spread.

1. What are &quot;living off the land&quot; attacks? What is the advantage to hackers?
Living off the land (LotL) refers to attackers that use tools that already exist. The reason they may choose this is to &#39;fly under the radar&#39;. The other main reasons are to avoid the need to build their own tools. Using existing tools can also make the job of defence more difficult. Using tools already embedded in the operating system. As every OS includes PowerShell, using the built-in tools can be effective when attacking organisations as they would be using an OS already having PowerShell.

1. What is an example of a tool that&#39;s used in &quot;living off the land&quot; attacks?
Some examples of Living off the Land tools used by attackers are powershell.exe, cmd.exe and WMIC.exe, amongst a host of others.

2. What are zero-day exploits?
Zero-day exploit is a cyber attack that has occured on the same day the weakness is exposed in software. It has been exploited until a fix has been created by the developer.

1. By what percentage did zero-day exploits decline in 2018?
Zero Day exploit used by attack groups dropped to 23% as opposed to 27% in 2017.

1. What are two techniques that worms such as Emotet and Qakbot use?
The techniques used by worms like Emotet and Qakbot are dumping passwords from memory and brute-forcing access to network shares to be able to move across networks. This can lead to other issues like locking users out of their network account after multiple failed login attempts by way of brute-forcing passwords. Emotet uses a spam module that installs on computers that can generate emails that don&#39;t appear to be spam and increases the likelihood of users clicking on links that initiate further attacks.

1. What are supply chain attacks? By how much did they increase in 2018?
Supply chain attacks are aimed at exploiting third-party services and software with the intent to hijack software updates and inject malicious code into legitimate software. These attacks occur via the third party who ultimately have access to an organisation&#39;s systems and data. In 2018 there was a staggering increase of 78% in supply chain attacks.

1. What challenges do supply chain attacks and living off the land attacks highlight for organizations?
The challenges of these attacks to organisations is that the supply chain can be a weak point for online retailers and eCommerce sites. With these attacks coming via trusted channels where attackers are using fileless methods or existing tools like PowerShell. Symantec blocks on average 115,000 malicious PowerShell scripts each month but this only accounts for less than 1% of overall PowerShell usage. What this means is that in order to identify and block these attacks, we will be required to use more advanced detection methods such as analytics and machine learning.

2. The 20 most active groups tracked by Symantec targeted an average of how manyorganizations between 2016 and 2018?
The 20 most active groups Symantec tracked targeted an average of 55 organisations between 2016 and 2018. This was up from 42 in the 3 years prior.

1. How many individuals or organizations were indicted for cyber criminal activities in 2018? What are some of the countries that these entities were from?
In 2018, there was a significant increase in the number of indictments for cyber crimes in the US and their alleged involvement in state sponsored espionage. A total of 49 individuals or organisations were indicted. Of these 49, 18 were alleged to be Russian agents, 19 Chinese individuals or organisations as well as 11 Iranians and 1 North Korean.

1. When it comes to the increased number of cloud cybersecurity attacks, what is the common theme?
The common theme with the increase in cloud cyber attacks is that poor configuration is proving to be a weakness that is exposing organisations. This was evident in the 2017 ransomware attack on open databases like MondoDB followed by the S3 buckets breach in 2018 which resulted in 70 million records compromised.

1. What is the implication for successful cloud exploitation that provides access to memory locations that are normally forbidden?
The implications on successful cloud exploitation is that although they each have their own virtual processors, they do share pools of memory. The result of a successful attack is that this would most likely lead to data being leaked from multiple clouds leading to millions of users having their data exposed at the hands of hackers.

2. What are two examples of the above cloud attack?
Two examples of these attacks are Meltdown and Spectre. While software patches have been released to prevent these vulnerabilities, attackers have introduced variants of these attacks which mean the cloud is certainly a target of high value for attackers moving forward.

1. Regarding Internet of Things (IoT) attacks, what were the two most common infected devices and what percentage of IoT attacks were attributed to them?
Routers and connected cameras were the most infected devices as a result of IoT attacks. Routers accounted for 75% and connected cameras 15%.

1. What is the Mirai worm and what does it do?
Mirai worm is malware that infects devices by turning them into a network of remotely controlled bots. This network of bots is known as a botnet and is used to launch Distributed Denial of Service attacks(DDoS).

2. Why was Mirai the third most common IoT threat in 2018?
The Mirai worm accounted for 16% of attacks in 2018. The primary reason it was the third most common attack was because it constantly evolved where variants used up to 16 different exploits. The more exploits added were aimed at increasing the success rate for infection of devices as they unfortunately remained unpatched. The Mirai worm also expanded its targets by going after unpatched Linux servers as well as attacks against Industrial control systems.

1. What was unique about VPNFilter with regards to IoT threats?
VPNFilter represented a concerning evolution of IoT threats. In 2018, VPNFilter represented the first persistent threat as a result of its ability to survive a reboot meaning it was very difficult to remove. VPNFilter introduced a variety of different attacks as part of its method of attack, often turning a device into a brick and then removing any trace of evidence that could be discovered.

1. What type of attack targeted the Democratic National Committee in 2019?
The Democratic National Committee were targeted by spear phishing attacks aimed at hacking into their email system.

1. What were 48% of malicious email attachments in 2018?

48% of malicious email attachments in 2018 were office files. They were received as notifications referencing an invoice or receipt. Once the attachment was opened the script executed and malware would be downloaded into the device.

1. What were the top two malicious email themes in 2018?
The top two malicious email themes in 2018 had the subject topic &#39;Bill&quot; at 15.7% and &quot;Email delivery failure&quot; at 13.3%.

2. What was the top malicious email attachment type in 2018?
The file types &quot;.doc and .dot&quot; was the top malicious email attachment type in 2018, almost doubling &#39;exe&#39; at 19.5%

1. Which country had the highest email phishing rate? Which country had the lowest email phishing rate?
In 2018, Saudi Arabia was the country that had the highest email phishing rate at 1 in 675 whereas Poland came in at 1 in 9,653.

1. What is Emotet and how much did it jump in 2018?
Emotet is a financial Trojan which was up to 16% of financial Trojans in 2018. This was an overall increase of 4% from 2017. First identified in 2014, Emotet was originally designed as banking malware that was used to steal sensitive and private data. Over time Emotet adopted more email spamming and malware delivery services. Emotet uses worm-like capabilities that help it spread to other connected computers.

1. What was the top malware threat of the year? How many of those attacks were blocked?
The top malware threat of the year was &#39;Heur.AdvML.C&#39; which accounted for 52.1% of Malware attacks and 43,999,373 attacks were blocked.

2. Malware primarily attacks which type of operating system?
Malware primarily attacks Windows based operating systems. In 2018, 97.2% of attacks blocked were on Windows OS and 2.8% on MacOS.

3. What was the top coinminer of 2018 and how many of those attacks were blocked?
JS.Webcoinminer was the top coinminer in 2018 at 49.7% and 2,768,721 attacks were blocked.


1. What were the top three financial Trojans of 2018?
The top 3 financial trojans of 2018 were :

Ramnit (47.4%, 271,939 attacks blocked)

Zbot (17.6%, 100,821 attacks blocked)

Emotet (16%, 92,039 attacks blocked)

1. What was the most common avenue of attack in 2018?
Spear-phishing emails was the most common avenue of attack and was used by 65% of all known groups in 2018.

1. What is destructive malware? By what percent did these attacks increase in 2018?
Destructive malware is malicious software with the ability to render an affected system inoperable through deletion of critical files needed for an operating system to run. In 2018, 8% of groups were known to use destructive tools which was a 25% increase from 2017.

1. What was the top user name used in IoT attacks?
The top username used in IoT attacks for the year was &#39;root&#39; at 38.1% followed by &#39;admin&#39; at 22.8%.

1. What was the top password used in IoT attacks?
The top password used in IoT attacks was &#39;123456&#39; at 24.6% , and just as concerning, in 2nd place was&#39;[BLANK]&#39; at 17%.

1. What were the top three protocols used in IoT attacks? What were the top two ports used in IoT attacks?
The top 3 protocols used in IoT attacks were;

Telnet 90.9%

Http 6.6%

Https 1%

The top 2 ports used in IoT attacks were;

TCP Port # 23 Telnet 85%

TCP Port # 80 World Wide Web HTTP 6.5%

1. In the underground economy, how much can someone get for the following?

  1. Stolen or fake identity: $0.10- $1.50
  2. Stolen medical records: $0.10- $35
  3. Hacker for hire: $100+
  4. Single credit card with full details: $1- $45
  5. 500 social media followers: $2- $6